# Introduction
The app creates a connection to a postgreSQL database using jdbc. The database contains multiple tables that simulate a market with customers and salesmen. Each customer can have multiple orders which include some products. The app helps to find a customer order using the order id and print order details. This include customer information, salesman information, order information and the list of products with the details. This project help me to understand in depth how to make an app communicate with a database as well as how to create custom queries for better data presentaion to the user. 

# ER Diagram

# Design patterns
DAO (Data Access Object) and Repository are two patterns used for abstract persistence access details. However, the way they do it is different. A DAO can come as a real object or abstraction. In the second case, DAO is used with DTO (Data Transfer Object) which encapsulates the domain object. This provides a layer of abstraction. DAO leverages a common interface, each implementation works with a single data domain. DAO often works with multiple tables. A repository can have only one access to a table per class. Also, in the case of join operation on multiple tables, the actual join can only be performed in code, not in a database. DAO in the same case allows doing the join in the database. A repository pattern is more suitable for distributed databases than DAO especially in cases where complex joins are performed regularly.  This is due to the fact that complex joins require a single instance database that implies vertical scaling. Since vertical scaling does not always work, the DAO pattern which performs joins in the single instance database, will not work.  In these cases, the repository pattern is the choice. In addition, the repository pattern works better when application is DB constraint because joins are performed outside of the database. 
